TITLE - Thrustmaster TH8a 2020 review
THUMB - Should you buy in 2020


I've been sim racing for over 20 years now, and the TH8a didn't make it into my upgrade path until about 2 years ago. Every Sim Racing YouTuber has probably owned and  reviewed this shifter at this stage, and I know i'm late to the game. However, people still regularly ask me about the TH8a and whether they should get one in 2020. this video is going to answer that question once and for all. 

(intro)

1. Introduction
On the left you’ll see all the sections in this review. If there’s a particular section that you want to see, you’ll find handy shortcuts to each section in the description below. While you’re down there please hit thumbs up and consider subscribing to this channel and hitting the notification bell icon if you want to see more content like this in the future. 

The TH8A is Thrustmasters' h-pattern shifter and was originally released in 2011, which is nearly 10 years ago. This is a lifetime in the sim racing and tech world, So how has it held up over time? It was formerly  known as the TH8RS, but it's effectively the same unit. The RS only supported PC and PS3. The TH8a replaced the TH8RS and brought with it support for PS4 and xbox. Thrustmaster users will be very familiar with this product, and rarely upgrade from it. Logitech owners often upgrade to this shifter and it is largely seen as the best entry level shifter for any sim setup.

2. Build Quality
This is a lovely looking shifter, and the materials used range from high grade plastic, to a brushed aluminium effect. It looks like it was lifted straight out of the center console of an italian sports car. The metal shifter gate is a lovely touch, although the throw of the gears is quite long. The gear knob is good, a decent weight, and looks like it came straight out of a fast road car. It's a well put together unit and everything feels very sturdy from a build quality point of view. Everything looks like it should and it still maintains a very nice small footprint. This is a huge factor for anyone with limited desk space. It will be difficult to break this shifter, even for your most heavy handed buddies. Some of my friends are very hard on gear, and although they had a lot to say about this shifter, none of them showed it any sympathy. 

3. Compatibility
This shifter is compatible with PS4, Xbox and PC. For xbox, however, you are restricted to the Thrustmaster eco-system. What I mean by that is that you cannot use the TH8a with a non Thrustmaster wheelbase, if using a console. However, on PC or PS4, you can also use the TH8a as a standalone unit if you'd like, using the USB adapter provided. If you have the older TH8RS then you need to buy a specific USB adapter. Using the USB connection allows you to mix this device with other wheelbases like Logitech or Fanatec offerings.

As this is a very popular shifter, most common sim rig manufacturers will have pre-drilled holes for this device. You can also buy a desk clamp for the TH8a, but i haven't used one. The shape of the shifter is a little odd as the mounting point sits in front of the gearbox itself, which could mean that the gear lever is not in the ideal position, depending on your rig's setup.

4. Setup
If you are using a Thrustmaster wheelbase, you can use the included cable to simply connect your shifter directly to your wheelbase. If you are using the shifter as a standalone unit, then you're going to need to use the provided USB adapter. Again, this is a luxury only afforded to PC users and PS4 users, not Xbox users. Once your shifter is connected, it' <VERIFY WHETHER PLUG AND PLAY>. Simply map your gears in your sim title's control configuration and you're ready to go. 

5. H-Pattern
Anyone can use flappy paddles on a steering wheel, but we love simulation and using a H-pattern in your favourite simulation title gives feelings beyond lap records or podium finishes. It adds another level of connection between you and your car. That's why this shifter is so incredibly popular, it is seen as one of the best entry level shifters available.

This gearbox offers 7 forward gears and reverse, as opposed to only 6 gears + reverse which some other gearboxes offer. However, I found this to have one major flaw. In a real car, i have 5, maybe 6 gears. And where i am used to just jamming the gearstick over to the right in my real car, there's no opportunity to mis-shift. However, due to the lightness of the TH8A shifter, and the presence of a 7th gear, i found myself constantly jamming it into 7th instead of 5th. 

Having 7 gears may have been cool on paper, but in general cars with more than 6 gears were quickly all adopting sequential or paddle shifters. You can get or print aftermarket gear gates which will block off 7th which will help to avoid 7th gear. Fanatec solved this issue by making 7th gear only accessible if you push the gear lever down. I quite like that solution. 

so having 7 gears took some getting used to but that wasn't the worst issue. Going from 5th to 4th during an aggressive heel-toe down shift requires FAR too much concentration as it feels like a shot in the dark to find 4th on downshift. There's just little to no feedback to let you know where the gear is. The shifter throw is light and intuitive with the standard gate. You can buy mods, and i haven't messed with those, which apparently make the whole experience a bit nicer. TH8A owners, please share your favourite mods in the comments below.

To some, this lack of feel may be a deal breaker, and maybe some of you are not as clumsy as i am when it comes to mis-shifting. These flaws when it comes to shifting have been the biggest negative for me with this product. I highly recommend that you try out one of these shifters before you commit to buying one. I honestly think it's time for Thrustmaster to replace this aging product.

6. Sequential
<TEST SEQUENTIAL MODE>
7. Mods
	1. short shifter ~
	2. throw ~
	3. Knobs ~

8. Final Thought
All in all, I was very disappointed with the TH8A, all things considered. It looked the business, but I didn't trust it for anything other than a bit of fun and some hotlapping with friends. Drifting was also fine as i rarely needed 5th gear.
Ultimately, it wasn't just me. I run a hotlap challenge at my house for friends to set times on a 'top gear' style leaderboad, and every single one of them struggled to get used to the shifter, a problem which i never had with the logitech shifter.



Installation is easy. This is a very nice looking shifter, similar to something you'd see in an italian sports car from the 90s. The metal shifter gate is a lovely touch, although the throw of the gears is quite long. The throw is also just a bit light. Again the modding community has made countless mods available to increase the weight of the throw. I got this cool 3d printed shifter gate which effectively acts as a short shifter. 

