Little spacers are a pain on the base plate
I got two of the same manual. So i had to go away and figure out how to change the dampers in the brake. I started turning things but didn't find it intuitive. Things were turning, but nothing was happening.


Heusinkveld sprint

Title: Heusinkveld Sprints in-depth review 2020  | 4K
Caption on image: Time to upgrade your Logitech, Thrustmaster or Fanatec pedals?

1 Introduction

I'm frequently asked by other sim racers whether they should upgrade their pedals, the main question being "Are the Heusinkveld sprints worth it?". And if that's the only question you came here to get an answer to, the answer is yes, if you can afford them, do it. Pedals are the single most important piece of sim racing hardware in my opinion and you'll see instant improvements in consistency and ultimately, your overall performance in a race situation.

Heusinkveld make some of the best looking pedals on the market. Strategically positioned where the consumer market meets the professional market, these pedals pack a punch and feel and look like real race car parts. The thickness of the materials used, coupled with the sleek design make these an amazing center piece on any rig.

On the left you’ll see the various sections in this review. If there’s a particular section that you wish to jump to, I’ve put a list or clickable timestamps in the description below. While you’re down there, please hit subscribe to stay up to date with videos like this one. Every time a sim racer subscribes to my channel, it helps YouTube to recommend my content to other sim racers.

I used these pedals several times on friends' rigs before I ever got to review them and I already liked them, but you cannot base a real review on occasional use. You need to use the product as if you own it, over an extended period of time, and thanks to digital-Motorsports.com, I’ve gotten the opportunity to do just that.

(Intro video)

2 Setup/installation

The individual pedals come pre-assembled, so if you’re mounting them to your rig’s pedal plate, it should be relatively straight forward using the nuts, bolts and washers provided. However, you’re likely to need to do some drilling if that’s the case, as most base plates simply can not accommodate every possible configuration for your driving style and personal preference. Before you drill holes though, make sure that the pedal base plate on your rig is at least 5mm thick, otherwise you’re very likely to end up with flex which gets very annoying, and you'll eventually just end up buying heusinkveld’s base plate anyway.

The heusinkveld baseplate is extremely durable yet it doesn’t compromise the looks in any way. In fact, I think these pedals look even better WITH the baseplate. It is well worth the extra cash as it makes the pedals feel a bit more complete.

I did find the base plate more complex to assemble than I thought they would be. This was mainly due to an awkward washer placement for the footrest. This washer isn't really even needed and if you watch Barry Rowland's review for Sim Racing Garage, he just didn't install it at all. Serves me right for reading the manual. I also found that once I had initially assembled them, my feet didn’t sit on the pedal faces correctly, so I needed to raise the foot rest. This involved unbolting half of the pedal base again, including that finicky washer which I probably should have just ignored after the first few times it slipped out during assembly.

One of my subscribers then told me during a live stream, that you can simply flip the pedal faces so that they're not as far away from your base plate. That would have been the easier thing to do. I did look at pedal face plate adjustment but as there was only one mounting hole, you can't move it up or down. flipping it upside down makes sense in a way, but I think that the logo not being consistent On all pedals would annoy me more than it should.

Once assembled though, it all looks and feels worth the effort. The mounting holes underneath the base place are the same as the Thrustmaster mounting points. This means that they fit quite easily to most rigs with pre-drilled mounting holes.

Again I found the nuts and bolts and washers a little finicky. I’d like to see threaded nuts welded to the metal support structure so that I need one less spanner and have one less tiny part to worry about keeping in place while clambering under my rig’s pedal plate to see if the holes line up.

Base plate aside, connecting the pedals together couldn't be simpler. You just plug the clutch and the throttle into the brake pedal, then connect the brake pedal to your PC using a USB-B connection.

3 Software

the heusinkveld control centre software has an easy calibration function, allowing you to easily configure how you want the pedals to behave. You don’t have to make full use of the 60kg load cell if you don’t want to. Truth be told, I didn’t. I love the ability to do so, but didn't need it. Other than a quick calibration, you shouldn’t need this software and don’t need to worry about having it running when using your pedals.

4 Throttle

All three pedals use a load cell. That seems somewhat alien as we usually think of the brake pedal only when we mention load cells. but heusinkveld prefer that approach to using a potentiometer or magnetic encoder.

The throttle feels good out of the box. I’m used to slightly longer travel than the default, so I adjusted it slightly. I like the longer setting because I frequently drive cars without traction control, and having a throttle pedal which gives good confidence really helps with those tricky corner exits. You also appreciate a high quality, dependable throttle pedal like this when it comes to slight lift offs in high speed sections.

5 Clutch

As with the throttle, a load cell is used for the clutch. It has a good throw and a good weight to it. There’s a bite point in the clutch travel which is simulated by a hinged mechanism, similar to some other pedal sets. This is quite nice and one of the better ones that I’ve used, but it’s a little bit difficult to simulate all the different types of clutch pedal out there. The solution they offer is fairly middle of the road in terms of mimicking what a fast road car would do, or what a real competition clutch feels like.

6 Brake

This is the one we all want to know about. Out of the box, i found the dampers too hard on this brake pedal. But cutting to the chase, this pedal set is one of the best in the consumer market. The sprints are far better than the clubsport v3s (even with the performance kit). I'm a huge fan of my Feel VR pedals, and it didn't take me long to find my feet with the sprints. My braking is good and consistent as I have a high level of confidence in these pedals.

Many of my sim racing friends swear by their sprints, and I can see why. You're really getting into the realms of realistic braking, however, if you're expecting the dynamic nature of real brakes, these pedals still belong in the non hydraulic, basic load cell category. Every time you brake, the feedback is the exact same, regardless of speed or traction. This has positives though as you can learn and remember exactly where your lock-up point is for each corner.

The pedal face feels nice and wide on the brake. Heel-toe is simple and I've actually not done much adjustment to the angles of the pedals at all, thanks to the adjustable pedal plate on my Simetik K2 rig. This leads us nicely into the Adjustment section.

7 Adjustment

There’s loads of adjustment available. From the height of the footrest to the faces of the pedals. You can angle the pedals and space them whatever way suits you thanks to this well engineered base plate. The throw of each of the pedals is easy to adjust by moving the bump stop. You can also adjust the angles of the pedals independently which is a major bonus for certain driving styles.

Adjustment is a little tricky at times though, and i wondered why they supplied the kit with rivets like this one, but it's simply to act as a placeholder for the bolt which allows you to change the angle of the pedal. If you don't use the rivet, it's like a game of buckaroo and takes quite a bit of fiddling to get back together. I found that out the hard way, but hopefully this video will help you avoid that mistake.

Changing the brake dampers is also more complex than i'd like it to be. I found myself using the default setup and thinking, "I'd like more travel on the brake". 20 minutes later, i finally made the adjustment i needed and booted up my game again and thought to myself, "is that better or worse?". Because it takes so long to make adjustments, I found it very hard to compare my new configuration to my old one. This was annoying and time consuming. I think that the type of people who spend this much on pedals either race a lot, or race very little. I'm in the latter category and tend not to like sacrificing my race time having to fiddle with spanners and spacers. If i was to find one flaw with this product, that would be it. I'd love to see a simpler solution for adjusting the throw and progression of the brake pedal. Eventually i got a comfortable setup with two of the larger dampers, as shown.

Although it took a while the first few times, Once you're familiar with changing out the dampers, it does get easier but just make sure you keep track of the order that you do things in, because it's a pain if you get the order wrong, or forget to put in the harder spacers between the dampers.

The kit comes with all the little spanners and Allen keys you need, although I’d really like to see less tooling being required, considering the potential simplicity of the assembly.

8 compared to non load cell brakes

Many people still ask if pedals like this are much better than their logitech or thrustmaster, non load cell pedals. The truth is, ANY load cell brake will be a major upgrade for you. Even a good load cell mod for your existing pedals is a decent investment. Initially you'll miss the lack of travel in the brake pedal, but once you focus on your driving and your consistency on track, you'll miss that travel less and less. I like a balance, that's why I've gone for the softer dampers on my adjustments on these pedals. Once you use load cell pedals, you'll never go back to non load cell.

9 compared to fanatec clubsport v3 pedals

I made a big statement earlier, saying that the brake is far better than the clubsport v3, even with the performance kit. I stand over this statement, and if i was to have an estimate, I'd say the HS sprints are at least 50% better than the clubsports. However, the clubsports have the little rumble motors which I absolutely love, and i love the shape of the fanatec throttle pedal for heel toe as it just feels a little less wearing on my feet when i race in socks. However, that's where it ends and if fanatec wants to compete with Heusinkveld, they need to up their game because right now, Fanatec's flagship pedals aren't as good as Heusinkveld's Entry level offering

8 Final thought

These are well worth the money. Honestly, before I ever tried them, I thought that they were just a well designed, well marketed version of a relatively average pedal set. I still feel that they’re not perfect but they’re light years ahead of any non load cell pedal sets, and also leave the fanatec offerings for dead in their default form.

Sim racing still has quite a bit to go when it comes to pedals. Like that resistance in a throttle that seems to get light when the wheels spin up, or that connection that a real car has between the gear stick and the clutch which gives you that confidence to pin it, as well as that awareness to back off.

And as for brakes, I think that load cell technology is great, but not yet where we need true brake pedal simulation to be. Every time you brake in a real car, it’s slightly different, but intuitive and communicative. Those variables and those tiny little bits of feedback that help you to anticipate or release a lockup are absolutely essential if we are to properly simulate real racing. For now, you cannot go wrong with a set of Heusinkveld sprints, as there’s nothing readily available for the consumer market out there that matches their performance.

Ultimately, we just want a pedal set that makes us confident and consistent, and this pedal set may do that better than any other, depending on your preference.

This is an amazing product which feels premium from unboxing right through to the competitive league races that I have used them for over the past few weeks. I have never had the fortune of trying out the flagship Heusinkveld pedals, the Heusinkveld Ultimates, and would love to do that comparison at some stage in the future, but until then, the sprints have risen to the top of my list of consumer grade, readily available pedals.

As we continue to expect more from our sim racing products, it’s great to see companies like digital-Motorsports.com supplying and selling products like these, as well as providing opportunities for people like me to share our opinions and our in depth reviews. I recommend having a look at their entire range of pedals to let your imagination wander into the possibilities of what could be. they’ve been kind enough to give me this opportunity to review these pedals over the past month, so I’d like us all to repay them by visiting their site and having a browse around. If and when you buy from them, tell them that I sent you.

I’m Laurence and I hope you enjoyed this review. Don’t forget to hit like on this video as it really helps my channel.





Heusinkveld Sprints in-depth review 2020 | 4K Quality

1. Introduction - 0:43
2. Installation - 1:43
3. Software - 4:52
4. Throttle - 5:28
5. Clutch - 5:58
6. Brake - 6:26
7. Adjustment - 7:35
8. Should I Upgrade? - 9:36
9. Fanatec V3 Comparison - 10:16
10. Final Thought - 10:56

I take an in-depth look at the Heusinkveld Sprint pedals, thanks to www.digital-motorsports.com who kindly loaned me a set for a month so that I could interact with the product the exact way that a buyer would. I got all the joys of unboxing right down to installation and set-up and I cover it all within 15 minutes in this video. If you enjoy it or if it helps at all, please consider liking and subscribing :)
