There's a significant air of quality around certain products and these pedals are a perfect example of that. This is the Simgrade Thera 3 pedal set with foot rest. Simple and elegant, these pedals look the part. For the past few weeks I've been putting them through their paces and today, we're going to find out how it went. I'm Laurence, welcome to the channel.

1. Introduction
On the left you’ll see all the sections in this video. I’ve put timestamped links to each section in the description below. While you’re down there please hit the thumbs up button to help YouTube to suggest this video to others like you. 70% of the people who watch my videos are not subscribed. Please consider subscribing and hit the notification bell if you want to be notified about upcoming reviews.

Simgrade is the latest Nordic product offering to emerge on the high end sim racing scene. This is probably the first time you've heard about them but they've been making and selling sim racing equipment since 2017. They do aluminium profile rigs and monitor stands too.

These pedals are very much intended to be a high end product focusing on simplicity and quality. They're the most compact high end pedals I've ever seen and that will be a huge selling point for some.

2. First impressions
They come largely assembled as this is a very minimalist package, especially when compared to some of its rivals. I got the optional heel rest with it and unless you already own a baseplate, I'd definitely spend the little bit extra to get it. I'll cover that in more detail later.

My first impressions were mixed, to be honest. There's no doubt about the machining and quality of these pedals. I wasn't quite sure how adjustable they'd be and I also worried about the fact that there's only one large elastomer on the brake. There's also a spring which can be used instead of the elastomer which I'll cover in a later section.

The pedal faces are beautiful. I just knew straight away that they would suit me. Even the control box has had some effort put into it. It's a lovely metal box even though you will most likely hide this somewhere on your rig. Little touches like this can give a good premium feel to a product.

3. Price
The 2 pedal set comes in at just shy of €800 and the 3 pedal set brings the price up to €1100. This places it in direct competition with the likes of the Asetek Invicta pedals, Meca Cup1s and various other top end pedal sets. However, one amazing feature here is their incredible 5 year warranty. 5 years for a sim racing product is a lifetime these days. It shows a lot of confidence in the product.

The baseplate costs an extra €40 and lines up pretty well on my p1-x pedal plate. Installation is recommended on aluminium profile rigs, which may alienate many potential buyers but the majority of high end sim racers do seem to be using extrusion rigs these days which leads us nicely into our next section.

4. Installation - hardware
As mentioned, these pedals are pre assembled but don’t come attached to a baseplate. This means that each individual pedal requires 4 bolts, 4 washers and 4 t-slot nuts. That’s quite a lot of mounting hardware and although it’s all supplied, installation is somewhat finicky due to the small footprint of the pedals. Luckily, most people only do this installation once.

The heel plate requires another 4 bolts and 4 t-slot nuts. I was lucky that the baseplate happened to line up in a position that I found comfortable but there is absolutely no adjustment available so again you will be relying on having an adjustable baseplate built into your rig. This would be a concern for me if I was a buyer.

All 3 pedals connect to a control box which is nicely machined. The ports are not clearly labelled though and I had to consult the manual to figure out what should plug in where.

5. Installation - software
The software for these pedals is really simple. When the pedals are connected you can instantly see all the inputs from your pedals and the little purple bars were very intuitive for setting a dead zone. For each pedal you see the overall sensor input on the left and the registered input for your sims on the right. This is very simple and also clearly illustrates how the adjustments you make to your pedals will impact your calibration. You'll probably need to re-calibrate your pedal inputs after you make any physical adjustments to the pedals themselves.

You can also influence the pedal shaping, meaning that you can change the linearity of your pedal inputs. For example, when driving an F1 car, you may want to dedicate 60% of the pedal throw to 30% of the input registration, allowing you more physical range to control those important sensitive throttle inputs. That being said, I left this as it was because the throw on these pedals is quite long and easy to modulate.

6. Throttle
The throttle is good, it has a nice weight to it. However, you cannot alter the throw of the pedal at all, which I feel is an essential adjustment especially on a throttle. To be honest, that’s the only real flaw I found with this pedal. It would be nice be able to adjust the weight of the pedal too but adjustment is just really really limited. Despite there being so many grooves on the pedal arm, there are only 4 usable slots which allow you to adjust the weight of the throttle. I have it on the heaviest setting and it's sufficient for me. I enjoy a heavy throttle and was able to modulate this one perfectly from the very first moment I started using it.

7. Brake
The brake is nice. There's a good feel to it and the single elastomer works quite well. However, if you don't like the feel of this single elastomer, you have another choice which is to use a spring. The spring works quite well and is super easy to swap out. The elastomer gives a nicer feel in my opinion but this could simply be because I'm more familiar with the feel of elastomers in brake pedals. When I started using this brake I was instantly able to match my quickest lap times and I would be quite happy if it was my own brake pedal. The throw is a little long though and not adjustable, but honestly I don't think that that impacted my performance with these pedals in a noticeable way. It would be nice to have other elastomer options, especially at this price point.

8. Clutch
Usually I leave the brake til last because it's the one that people are most interested in. I've left the clutch til last here because well, I didn't get along with it. Out of the box it was extremely heavy. In fact, the spring that they use for the clutch is exactly the same as the spring that they provide for the brake. When you put the two side by side, they're almost indistinguishable. I'll let you be the judge of that. This clutch feels like a bit of an afterthought.

There was no discernible bite point either which isn't a big deal but the vast amount of preload made it unusable when using a h-pattern or a sequential that requires frequent clutch engagement. I adjusted the rod arm to the lowest point so that I had the most leverage and the clutch became as light as possible but still it's really not a pleasant clutch experience. Again, this is just my opinion, like everything else in this video, and when I asked Simgrade about whether they were going to make improvements to this clutch they said that they were not going to change anyting, except they now ship the clutch on the lightest setting possible, similar to the adjustment I made. This isn't good enough for me unfortunately and if you're looking for a decent clutch experience, this pedal is not for you. The clutch simply doesn't live up to the brake and throttle, which I enjoyed and would have no problems recommending.

9. Adjustability
Adjusting the weight of the pedals is a pretty easy and tool free experience. There are plastic casings on the bolts which allow you to loosen and tighten the pedal arm assembly. However these can be pretty tight and it can be difficult to get a grip on them to loosen them without hurting your fingers.

Changing the brake elastomer or preload is about as easy as it gets with this innovative mechanism which simply clicks in and out of place again without tools. However, their ability to provide this mechanism is borne out of a fundamental lack of adjustability.

My main concern is  the fixed distance throw of these pedals, mainly for the throttle but also for the brake. There's no native preload adjustment on any of the pedals, but you CAN adjust the preload by removing or adding washers to the assembly which is limited and feels a bit hacky.

You can adjust the angle of each pedal by almost 10 degrees spread over 3 settings by removing this bolt on either side and rotating the pedal within the outer housing. I tried to do this and found that I needed to loosen some other bolts in order allow this adjustment.

If the brake with isn't heavy enough, you can lower the pedal face which removes some of the leverage you can achieve. I found this effective but impractical as I like the pedal face to be level with the other pedals. As these pedals have a pretty small footprint, they can't accommodate the low amounts of leverage that many other pedals can. If the brake with the elastomer is too heavy, you're actually a little limited with adjustability when it comes to the lighter settings as the elastomer can only go so low due to its diameter. You can achieve a lighter brake pedal with the spring than with the elastomer. Also,  you cannot achieve as heavy a brake with the elastomer as you can with the spring.

The pedal faces are adjustable but only by moving the pedal face up or down to utilise the single unused bolt hole. This unused hole in the pedal face doesn’t look great and kind of takes away from an otherwise pretty perfect looking pedal.

Ensure that you read the manual before making any adjustments as some adjustments will actually VOID your 5 year warranty which wouldn't be a great start. Also, be careful for your hands when swapping the elastomer for the spring. I learned the hard way despite the manual being quite explicit about the risk of clamping or crushing. Luckily my pain wasn't in vain though as they decided to revise this design based on my incompetence.

10. Final thought
Despite a few criticisms, I like the throttle and brake. It is my duty as a reviewer to inform you of all the potential concerns that you might have before buying this product. Having said that, if you sat into a high end rig and the Simgrade Thera 2 pedal set was installed on it, you'd be suitably impressed. They're very enjoyable to use. They are the type of product you'd really want to try out before shelling out €800 for the 2 pedal set or €1100 for the 3 pedal set as the lack of adjustments and limited rig compatibility will alienate a lot of the userbase.

These products are made in Europe and come with a 5 year warranty which is pretty incredible. They have done a great job of providing a thorough and well thought out user manual which is also not overwhelming. The clutch was a major let-down and I simply can't recommend it at this time but the throttle and brake are definitely worthy high end products.

Without a base plate to mount all the pedals to, pedal sets like this often feel like components of a pedal set rather than a complete pedal set. I even found them difficult to film in an aesthetically pleasing way, despite them individually being amongst the prettiest pedals I've ever seen. I didn't want to add in any extra aluminium profile in my footage as you don't get any with the product. The heel plate is a must have for only €40 extra though.

All in all, the 2 pedal set with the heel plate is a good product with a high price tag but a great warranty. The tiny footprint and light weight makes them ideal for motion setups or applications with limited space, like within a formula style monocoque. The machining and overall quality is second to none. However there are some compromises with this product when it comes to adjustability. The software is intuitive and useful, and installation of the pedals themselves is a little finicky with lots of bolts and small gaps to get them into.

I would like to thank Simgrade for the use of these pedals over the past few weeks. I have been using them in my competitive practice, races and live streams every Tuesday and Thursday at 9pm Irish and UK time. I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments below. I'm Laurence, I'll chat to ye later.


