

You're about to see a review for a pedal set with real racing pedigree, which is surprisingly rare in sim racing. You see, there are pedal manufacturers which begin building pedals out of necessity. Usually pedal manufacturers start out as just an individual who has enough knowledge to make a working set of pedals for cheap. Whereas Venym wanted to push the boundaries of sim technology for training in their real world F3 and F4 race cars... But what does that mean for us ordinary sim racers? Does that make them good sim pedals? I'm Laurence, welcome to the channel

<intro>

1. Introduction
On the left you’ll see all the sections in this video. I’ve put timestamped links to each section in the description below.

So right from the get go, you can see that there's some thought put into these pedals. The way they curve, the shape of the faces. These pedals are designed by real race car engineers and assembled by enthusiasts, at a real race circuit. They feature load cells for all 3 pedals and they really do look like they come from a real car, especially the 2 pedal set.That looks like it bolts straight into a monocoque chassis.

All of the products in this review were sent to me free of charge for the purposes of this review and nobody other than me has had any say in the content of this video. The links to this product and its competitors in the description are affiliate links and if used will earn this channel some money at no extra cost to you.

2. First Impressions
I wanted the 3 pedal set, because having a clutch is a vital part of any sim pedals set in my opinion. It must be said thought that the curved arms on these pedals look great on the throttle and brake, but once you introduce a clutch, it takes away from the monocoque styling a bit. I do like that they've made the clutch pedal face plate very small to compensate for this. The metal laser cut covers are nice and raw. They have some character and serve a purpose, while being branded quite neatly. these work quite well as dust covers, and add a little extra style to a product that's really difficult to set apart from the competition.

The added some LED strips under the pedals which look great for anyone watching you drive, but realistically, you can do without them. I didn't feel any benefit from having them on other than showing off to my friends. While the defaults are red for the brake and green for the throttle, you can customise these colours to be whatever you want. Again, these are just harmless add-ons to give these pedals a bit more life and personality,

You'll also see that they engraved my pedal arms. I was blown away  that they went to this effort, although I must admit, it doesn't look great. The curve on the text doesn't match the pedal curve and it looks a bit DIY.

3. Price
They're not cheap. But there's some racing pedigree here and at the risk of spoiling the review, I found these pedals to be really good. Definitely as good as any other pedals without haptics that I have tried. They begin at €649 for the 2 pedal set and €849 for the 3 pedal set. That's without the baseplate which is close to €100. If you want the LEDs, they're an extra €50. The brake upgrade kit is another €90. extra throttle springs are another €20. Clutch springs are another €20 and if you want a heel wedge, that's another €20. Engraving is another €10. So the pedals you see here come in at €1200 which honestly, is a little saucy. I must stress though, that they are excellent. If you want to save some money though, you can ditch pretty much every accessory as these pedals are a significant upgrade from most pedal sets. The brake kit is worth getting for peace of mind to change the brake feel which is already really good out of the box, but the rest are all relatively subjective. I like having a base plate, but this base plate is nothing special. The VNM, Meca or Simforge base plates offer far better functionality and comfort.

4. Installation - Hardware
There's a little bit of a raw feel to these pedals. The bolts that I got seemed like they were cut. I found that out the hard way as they scratched my counters as shown in the video. The bolts stick out as the lowest point on the base plate. When installing on your rig, you need these spacers which are a little awkward. The whole assembly process felt a bit diy to be honest. You get loads of slots in the base plate but the assembly wasn't as nice an experience as many of its competitors. The pedals all plug in to the brake pedal and a single usb cable runs from there to your PC, so the cables are nice and neat. It's also worth noting that the LEDs come pre-installed if you order them.

5. Installation - Software
The software is simple and effective. There's really very little to report. The pedals came calibrated quite well from the factory. There was no functionality to choose preset curves for pedal inputs at the time of this review, but this functionality may be added by the time you see this. The calibration worked fine and possibly the most interesting thing was that you can hook the pedal LEDs up to you philips hue bridge. You can customise the light colours which is also pretty cool, but again, your foot hides these lights and they don't add anything other than some funky functionality that makes a visual impression.

6. Throttle
The throttle is good. It's not too light and not too heavy. There's not a low of adjustment other than preload which allows for a heavier or lighter throttle. But honestly, I didn't feel the need to adjust from default. The throttle is reliable and predictable. You can adjust the angle of the pedals using the brackets which rotate the entire pedal. However, I'm not sure how useful this adjustment is as the pedals are already almost at 90 degress when at the lowest setting. I drive in a GT seating position and the default pedal position is fine for me.

7. Clutch
As I mentioned before, the clutch is a bit of an afterthought here. I don't mean that it's a bad clutch. But it's not a great one. It's functional but there's no real bite point simulation and there's no adjustment either. As with the throttle, a small load cell is used to detect user input. This load cell sits below the pedal arm. You can see the little spring here in the video. This clutch is handy to have, but it's really a clutch for sim racers who occasionally need a clutch. It is not for hardcore h-pattern drivers.

8. Brake
The brake is the most important part of any pedal set. And Venym have nailed it. While I did try several other elastomer configurations, they all performed extremely well. My gut instinct is that you don't need the €90 performance kit. But if you want peace of mind that you have all the available adjustability in the world, go for it. Just be prepared to be impressed from the moment you plug these pedals in.

 The one thing that I have slight concerns over is the way that elastomers warp and move slightly under heavy braking. This will lead to wear over time but could also lead to a slightly inconsistent brake feel. However, no matter how hard i tried, and I used these pedals for months, I never felt like there was variation in my braking. The load cell is at the very end of the mechanism so it is very sensitive to inputs, which is a great thing. I found these pedals great for all types of driving really. I feel that a cup system like the meca evo pedals or the simforge pedals would bring the brake feels to the next level. These pedals are incredible for the first 70% of braking but the last 30% doesn't feel as detailed as it could and I think that might be due to the elastomer deformation absorbing some of the subtle details. Choosing 3 elastomers was wise. Generally, more elastomers allow for a more detailed brake feel. When choosing elastomers, go for 3 similar shore/strength elastomers. If there is too much variation between your elastomers, your soft elastomers are going to get hammered while the strong elastomers barely every get used. Again, a cup system would divide up the phases of braking nicely.

9. Ergonomics & Customizability
As mentioned, pedal angles are adjustable. I found the angle adjustment to be pretty good. You can't rotate the pedals away from the heel plate any more than shown in the video. I do think that anyone who invests this much in pedals is likely to have a rig with adjustable pedal tray angle, so it's not a major concern.

You can get an engraving on the pedal arms, but honestly, despite being cool at first sight, I feel that the engravings shown here kind of cheapen the look of the pedals. If I was buying a set, I'd avoid getting the engravings as they don't look as nice as they could, but they also vastly reduce the resale value depending on the message.

The pedal vase plate is expensive, for a plate of metal with slots in it. The heel wedge is very simple too. The pedal base plate and heel wedge as pictured here comes in at €120. For that price, I'd recommend looking elsewhere for a base plate.

The LEDs are fun but also pretty useless. They're a nice flex and set the pedals apart from the competition, but there's no benefit to them other than aesthetics.

The little metal covers are a nice touch. There are some burn marks from the cutting which give them a less clean look in my opinion.

The bolts that secure the pedals to the base plate are sharp. almost like they were longer but were cut. This meant that they scratched my floor and my work bench while recording this video, which is a shame and lacks an air of quality. It's a little DIY.

10. Final Thought
I love this company. Their passion shows, and I was lucky enough to meet them at the ADAC Sim Racing Expo several times over the past few years. I had heard their claims before. "Our pedals are for real race car drivers". But they were spot on. I only really changed stuff because I had extra springs and elastomers available and needed to test them all. But the feel was really good with all of them. I'd happily use these pedals for Formula and GT driving, but as I said, they're not ideal for heel toe. They just aren't really shaped in a way that encourages heel toeing as its awkward to get the throttle in the right position relative to the brake. So while they were developed by race car drivers, I can only assume that those drivers are predominantly open wheeler or GT specialists. So while these pedals are more than good enough, I just couldn't get them set up for proper heel and toe driving unfortunately as the clutch is a bit of an add-on or afterthought. For sequential shifting, they're really good and among the best pedals I've ever used, which is high praise. They feel better out of the box than some pedal sets which are far more expensive.

I think these pedals have a tough time competing with some of the more refined and cheaper brands. However, their connection and influence in real motorsport is enough to convince anyone that they know what they're talking about and wont let you down. I just found the finish a little DIY in places and the pricing creeps up quickly when you add bells and whistles. It's important to note that this company is in the EU, where labour costs and taxes are relatively high. Luckily they're a very solid pedal set out of the box, so I'd recommend buying the add-ons at a later stage if you want to save money. The base plate is simple and the heel wedge is a necessity. But as stated, there are cheaper and better baseplates out there.

My laptimes were solid pretty much from the get-go and there was no ramp-up needed for me as an existing load cell user. They feel natural and are well spaced laterally but I'd like some more adjustment in the angle and travel of each individual pedal.

You can have these in pretty much any colour combo which makes them a nice statement piece on your rig. I love the more simple look though, so I'd spec them almost exactly as seen in this video.

Finally, and perhaps quite important to some, these pedals are officially licenced by the FIA. What exactly that means is up for debate. For many it will mean "If they're good enough for the FIA, they're good enough for me." Whereas in reality, these pedals are no more special than many of their competitors. I struggled to find flaws with them to be honest, which is a big vote of confidence for a product from a small company.

Should you decide to buy this product, I have included links in the description which when used earn some money for this channel. There's no obligation to do so but your support is appreciated immensely. Details about other companies with similar benefits are also listed. I'm Laurence, I stream every Tuesday and Thursday at 9pm UK/Irish time. Thanks again to Venym for making this review possible and to you for taking the time to watch, hit the thumbs up or comment with your experiences or opinions. I'm Laurence, and I'll chat to ye later


https://laurencedusoswa.com/affiliate-links/?search=venym
