Sim racers love buttons. But why? Why do we end up with more buttons than any race car has? Why do we need so many rotary encoders, buttons, toggles, switches and paddles. And why do we spend so much on all these devices that we don't use to their full potential? I know the answer. But it took me years to figure it out... I'm Laurence, welcome to the channel

<intro>

1. Introduction
On the left you’ll see all the sections in this video. I’ve put timestamped links to each section in the description below.

In our search for perfect simulation, have we surpassed or ignored reality? We have more buttons than we could ever need, even on the most basic entry level steering wheels, yet we all invest in more lights, screens and buttons which don't make us any faster.

There will be many products featured in this video. All of these products were sent to me free of charge for the purposes of my content and nobody other than me has had any say in the content of this video. Any product links shown in the description are affiliate links. Using them supports this channel at no extra cost to you.

2. Paddles
Let's tackle one of the more common confusions. Almost everyone knows about gear shifters and what they do, and it's widely accepted that a steering wheel without shifter paddles isn't actually even worth having for most people. So some steering wheels have 4 paddles. What are the extra 2 for? Those are usually analog paddles which don't provide an on/off clicky input. They actually function far more like pedals than buttons. Those pedals are commonly called 'dual clutch' paddles but realistically, they're additional inputs that allow you to get a better launch off the line. You hold both paddles, rev the engine and then release one of the paddles to engage the clutch at a specified bite point. Basically, it's a bit like cheating, but it's legal. If you see people consistently getting a perfect launch at the start of every race, odds are they're using clutch paddles. There's no reason those clutch paddles can't be assigned to brake and throttle.

So I've now explained 4 paddle setups. But why do some steering wheels have SIX paddles? Honestly some wheels just look like some weird insect. And sometimes the extra paddles can cost several hundred dollars, and people still buy them. I have had them on review products and I have to agree that they are not really necessary. The joke I make is that I use them for my pit limiter and for flashing my lights at drivers with inferior hardware. You can assign them to whatever you like. Some companies make them more affordable than others. I'm not convinced I need them, but I want them.

Some products don't have the space for the fifth and sixth paddles or they offer toggles or buttons which sit behing the wheel. I guess in ways it makes sense. It's prime real estate. When you're holding a steering wheel, your index finger is a lot easier to move than your thumb.

3. Steering wheels buttons
Some wheels have as many as 12 buttons. That's before you've counted rotary encoders or anything that's not strictly a button. Why would you possible need all those buttons. Do people just like having lights on their wheel? But some don't even have backlighting. I'll cover backlighting in a moment, so let's focus on the buttons for now. Buttons tend to cover the area where your thumb can reach on a steering wheel. That's a general rule of thumb, pardon the pun, for a GT or formula steering wheel. Larger round rims are always looking to strike a balance between button access and finger space. On round wheels, you're far more likely to adjust your grip than with a formula rim. That's usually due to the number of degrees of steering wheel rotation you have.

Does anyone really use all the buttons? Probably not! I know I don't. But I appreciate having access to them. And as this video goes on, it's probably becoming more clear that the answer to almost every sim racing question is 'choice'. Sim racers love having choices. It's why pedals and force feedback are so damn confusing.

4. Encoders
Encoders are useful for stuff like brake bias, ABS, Traction Control, Anti-Roll bar settings, Engine maps, volume, and many more things. But are those really all things that people need? Sure, we like to have the choice, as mentioned before, but some wheels have up to 9 rotary encoders. And i'm STILL not even counting 7-way hats. A rotary encoder worth its keep will have an additional click down function. Hell, some even distinguish between short press and long press. In some products, every single notch on the rotary encoder can be assigned to a different function. That's a lot of functions. And a lot of choice. That's actually the difference between a rotary encoder and a rotary switch. Sim racers usually just use basic rotary encoder functionality, whereby turning one way gives a single input and turning the other gives another input. Basically setting something to be 'higher' or 'lower'. But then a switch is handy when it comes to things like engine maps. You can go straight from map 1 to map 5 in one detent without needing any feedback from your UI or HUD. I don't want to get too bogged down in details but I thought that was very interesting when I first found out.

5. 7-way hats or funky switches
No steering wheel can be taken seriously in sim racing without a 7-way hat, or at least a multifunction toggle like this. The 7 inputs are usually up, down, left, right, click down and rotation left and right. But the interesting thing is that you're VERY unlikely to ever see one of those on a real race car. So why do we bother with them? Well, we need to adjust menus and pit strategies while driving so funky switches make sense for sim racers to have. 'Funky Switch' is actually a term coined by a famous sim racing company. Let me know in the comments if you know who came up with that term.

So we know that sim racers want a 7-way hat. But... Why do some wheels have 2 of them? Hell, some wheels have THREE of them. what's that about? Surely that's just showing off. But the crazy thing is that sim racers flock towards those products. There will be people in the comments claiming that they use all the functionality but honestly, they don't. They just like having the choice. And that's fine. I'm not judging. I like the choice too. But at what point does the choice lose utility and become a status symbol?

6. Screens
Moving deeper into the world of sim racing decadence, we've got screens. Many will argue that screens are pointless on sims because all the info you need is visible on screen already. So why would you spend extra money on a screen that ironically covers part of your screen? It really sounds silly when you say it like that.

There are a few reasons though. Firstly, most people play on flat screens. Sorry, did I just say 'play'? I meant 'simulate'... Most people 'simulate' on flat screens. Flat screens don't have the depth of VR because they're 2D. Having an extra screen between your steering wheel and your monitor actually gives a nice sense of depth. But again, let's be honest. Screens look cool. Most screens that are built into steering wheels look the business. Absolutely incredible from a visual point of view. But do you REALLY use the screen in your steering wheel as much as you claim you do? Steering wheels only have screens in them in real life to save space in a cramped cockpit. But in sim racing, most of us sit in a GT position so we look down on the screen which takes our eyes off the road. In almost every review I've done where the wheel has a screen, I've made this point. I love having a wheel with a screen because it's like a beautiful watch face on a time piece. Like diamonds on a Patek Phillipe. The screen makes you happier, but doesn't make the product any more useful. I argue strongly in favour of a standalone screen if you have the choice. Not only is it cheaper, but also adds visual depth to your setup while being reusable with multiple steering wheels.

7. Backlighting
And that brings us on to backlighting. From day 1, I've been a backlighting fan boy. If a wheel doesn't have backlighting, it better be cheap or aimed at VR users. I often leave my wheelbase on, just so that I can see beautifully customised backlighting even when I'm not using the rig. The price difference between a normal button and a backlit button is huge for manufacturers. Nowadays sim racers expect the lights. They look great on their instagram stories. But the reality is, if you need lights to find the buttons on your wheel, your wheel design sucks. You should be able to find the buttons you need without looking, even when wearing gloves. Nobody needs backlit buttons. But I wouldn't buy a steering wheel without them.

8. Button boxes
So far we've only covered steering wheels. What about button boxes? Who wouldn't want another 5, 10, 15, 20 buttons on their rig. If you already have so many buttons on your steering wheel, you really need to dig deep to justify a button box. For some, it's a cool DIY project. So, why not? right? But others spend hundreds on button boxes. I'm one of those people and honestly, I didn't need to at all. Sometimes it's just nice to be able to assign a button in a particular place. For example, if you have multiple rims and want to have common functionality like turning on lights, wipers, etc all in one place. Then button boxes are a good place for that. Things like towing to pits, pit limiters or anything you wouldn't want to accidentally hit while racing. I think I have over 100 buttons available to me on my rig at any given moment. that excludes my keyboard and mouse. If I was to be fully honest about what I have assigned, I probably assign maybe 10 things. Seems like a massive waste of money, but here we are, and all of my reviews still recommend these products.

9. Final Thought
The answer to the question is pretty simple now that I've explored it. We just want choice. We want thumb encoders for things that we adjust regularly. We want clutch paddles for launching off the line quicker than our friends. We want lights and screens because we like pretty things. We dream of driving any car at any track at any time. It's one of the perks. Flexibility and choice. And that shines through in our hardware. If companies launched products based solely on the functionality that people need, nobody would buy them. Think about that. That's the bar that we've set for ourselves in sim racing. And we want those products to be 100% reliable for several hours a day, several days a week. If it breaks or wears after only a couple of hundred hours, we'll get OUTRAGED.

However, there is a bright side. Our desperate journey for perfection and freedom is affecting real world racing. Real world steering wheels are cheaper than ever. And it's not just steering wheels. People are fitting sim racing products in road and race cars for shifting gears, viewing data and even for their most critical functionality. Finally, the ugly cousin of motorsport got its chance to shine over the past few difficult years and thanks to manufacturers and consumers, we've been able to have a huge impact on real racing. I'd love to hear your thoughts. How many buttons do you REALLY use, and what for? Oh, and please don't show my wife this video which admits that i've spent too much money on this hobby. Thank you all for watching, I'm Laurence and I'll chat to you later.
